in this lesson we're going to look at
the benefits and usage of availability
zones
i previously talked about the idea that
there are data centers
these make up a particular region
remember they live within a certain
distance based on that two millisecond
latency round-trip window
i can think therefore that for a
particular region
maybe let's say there are
a whole bunch of data centers maybe
there's 16 i'm not going to draw that
many
for now i'm just going to say maybe
there's five
now in many regions what actually
happens is if i think about what is
required for a data center well i need
things like power
i need cooling
without cooling data centers don't work
and i need networking i need
communication
in addition to the data centers being
different physical buildings so they
have protection for maybe a fire they
have firewalls physical firewalls air
gap to protect from any kind of disaster
like a fire
but additionally
they have independent power calling and
networking so there's some localized
issue with one of those utilities it
would only affect a particular data
center
where that is the case
these are actually exposed as
availability zones
so that gives me this ability to now
have resiliency from a facility level
failure
so what's going to get exposed to me
are a number
of
availability
zones
now the exact number
is three
every subscription will see three
availability zones
per region if the region supports it not
every region supports availability zones
but most do today
if i was to go and look at the portal
for a second
what we can see here if i was just going
to do something simple like a virtual
machine
if i say create virtual machine
if i'm deploying to a region that does
support availability zones
we have these availability options
and notice i can pick
availability zone
physically separate your resources
within the region
and if i pick that option
i can pick one
two or three
so always for each region if it supports
availability zones i'm gonna see three
availability zones one two and three now
what's really important when we think
about this
is there's not actually a building
called
one two and three
for each subscription so let's imagine
for example that i have two
subscriptions
i have a subscription
one and we're going to talk more about
subscriptions but for right now you can
think of it as a boundary for billing
purposes it's also a security boundary
by default into which i will create
resources so i have a subscription one
and we'll also say i have a subscription
too
now for any particular region so let's
say this is east u.s
when i'm talking to east u.s
i will see three availability zones so
i'm gonna see
for each subscription
and az1 2 and 3.
and likewise this other subscription
will also see
az1 2 and 3. but they may be mapped
completely differently
for subscription one which az1
could be that physical building
a z2 could be that physical building az3
could be that one
for another subscription it's a z1
could be that building az2 could be that
building
az3
that building there is no correlation
between physical buildings between
subscriptions that's not the point the
point of the availability zone is that i
can now think about hey i'm going to
deploy services
and i want resiliency from a building
level problem so when i'm deploying my
services i can think about okay i'll
deploy an instance in az1
an instance in az2
and then instance in az3
i don't really care which building it
actually got created in now it happens
it would have gone
like this
based on my mapping
but the important point is they went to
different physical buildings
so if i need to have resiliency within a
region
to protect myself from a building level
a data center level problem
i'm going to use availability zones
now i need to make sure i
deploy more than one instance if i just
put one vm that doesn't really help me
because there's only one and it's in one
az i need to have multiple instances
spread out over those multiple
availability zones
now just like regions availability zones
yes give me resiliency from a data
center level failure
but also as part of certain types of
update rollout there's this availability
first update practice when microsoft
rolls out updates it does it one easy at
a time to once again help give me
protection from not only disasters but
if there was some maintenance activity
that went wrong it's not going to knock
out all my azs at the same point
now when i use availability zones
depending on the service i may have a
choice we saw with virtual machines
i could pick a certain availability zone
so when i pick a particular availability
zone well that's what's known as zonal
so zonal is when it goes to a specific
availability zone like a virtual machine
there are some services that are what we
call zone redundant
now with zone redundant what they will
actually do is they will span
automatically
those three availability zones for me
that's typically going to be i was
saying it's kind of built into azure
or maybe it's a service like a virtual
machine scale set which deploys multiple
vms and it will distribute the resources
it creates over it for me
so some of them i won't get a choice a
vm can only be zonal when i deploy a
single vm
others it might let me pick for example
if we jump back over to the portal for a
second
so if i come out of this
and i don't need to create
this virtual machine we'll cancel this
so again this was a zonal example
but if instead let's say something like
a public ip
if i go and create a new public ip
address
we'll actually see for the availability
zone
it's actually going to give us a choice
it's default is zone redundant
so without doing anything else it will
actually make that resource
protected by distributing it internally
across the multiple zones or
when if i select the options
it lets me pick
i could make it zonal by picking a
specific availability zone
so i have that choice as part of my
usage of the particular resource
but the key point here
is that availability zones they're
giving me resilience within a region
from some data center level problems you
see a question in this region we need to
make sure that a failure of a particular
data center does not impact the
availability of my service what
constructs should i use
hey i'm going to use availability zones